A reaction can be slowed down by cooling the beaker it's in!
pH meters scan more than just pH. They can tell you the purity of each reagent.
The infomation depth of pH meter readouts can be reduced by using it in hand!
Chem Masters can tell you the optimal pH of a reagent for it's reaction under the analyse function.
Oculine slightly improves your eyesight when it's in your system, based on the purity of it, of course!
Everyone's stomachs has a pH, I wonder what happens if you try to set off a mixed fermiexplosion after changing it?
I wish Kev would merge my PRs
Nutriment can be created in the lab by grinding up synthmeat. Cooking oil can be created this way too!
Some of the reagents used in hatmium are easily obtained by grinding synthmeat.
Injecting someone with a syringe of Furranium will stun them for a short time while they cough up a plushie.
EMPing the Sleepers will change the chems they produce.
Emagging a Sleeper will let you add any reagent to it. No longer do you need the CMO's ID to add space drugs!
Smartdarts are easily picked up by using a medolier on them.
Lots of smartdarts can be immersed in a beaker by using a medolier filled with smartdarts on a beaker.
There's a secret chem that turns people in crit into perma cats. And it counts as an assasination/killing them for your greentext. Why not turn everyone into cats instead?
Purity isn't that scary! Try following the guide to your first fermireaction on the wiki, using the button up top.
MKUltra is easily resisted using the resist button, and lewdchem under IC will set the text of the chem to be neutral, as well as disabling anything that might make some uncomfortable.
Inverse Neurine will not delete an imaginary friend, once a friend, always a friend.
Overdosing on Mannitol will give you pro tips from your newfound enlightenment. Though, perhaps you know that already!
Spraying Nanite bane on something will EMP it. Useful for cameras and stealth emps.
You can possess other people as a astral projection, if they have astrogen in their system too. For those who don't, you can send a message to them secretly.
Eigenstasium's wild ride can be halted by taking more.
Spraying the floor with hatmium will create a hat. Throwing this hat will make it mad, and it'll start attacking!
For the larger explosions, the hotter it is, the larger the fireball, as well as secondary effects.
For some explosions, the more basic it is, the larger the explosion, with respect to volume.
For some explosions, the more acidic it is, the stronger the acid power.
Overdosing someone on Astrogen will slowly remove them from the round. 
If you take Incubus draft, it increases the total amount of blood in your body. Make sure to replenish your blood levels as you take it! Equally, it means you have more to bleed if you get hurt!
Inverse Synthetic-derived growth factor will spawn a powerful zombie on the victim.
The random additional ??? reagent for the hidden chem can be aluminium, silver, gold, plasma, silicon, uranium or milk
The Dartgun can be crafted, and a repeater dartgun can be crafted too!

