Occasionally the tip of the round might lie to you. Don't panic, this is normal.
To defeat the slaughter demon, shoot at it until it dies.
Sometimes you won't be able to avoid dying no matter how good you are at the game. Try not to stress too much about it.
When a round ends nearly everything about it is lost forever, leave your salt behind with it.
Killing the entire station isn't fun except when it is.
You can win a pulse rifle from the arcade machine. Honest.
Just like real life the entropy of the game can only increase with time. If things aren't on fire yet, just wait.
Completing your objectives is good practice, but the best antagonists will strive to do more than the bare minimum to really leave an impression.
The more obscure and underused a game mechanic is, the less likely your victims are to be able to deal with it.
Space is cold and it will quickly freeze you to death if you don't protect yourself. This isn't how thermodynamics really works but just go with it.
Blobs are weak to fire! Use a flame thrower for maximum damage!
Cleanbot.
The wizard is supposed to be extremely strong in one on one combat, stop getting mad about it.
Sometimes a round will just be a bust. C'est la vie.
This is a game that is constantly being developed for. Expect things to be added, removed, fixed, and broken on a daily basis.
It's fun to try and predict the round type from the tip of the round message.
They said the QM could never be a head, but we showed them.
The birb remembers.
Your sprite represents your hitbox, so that afro makes you easier to kill. The sacrifices we make for style.
Sometimes admins will just do stuff. Roll with it.
The remake will never come out.
Plenty of things that aren't traditionally considered weapons can still be used to slowly brutalize someone to death, get creative!
DEATH IS IMMINENT!
This game is older than most of the people playing it.
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Flashbangs can weaken blob tiles, allowing for you and the crew to easily destroy them.
Just the tip?
You can grab someone by clicking on them with the grab intent, then upgrade the grab by clicking on them once more. An aggressive grab will momentarily stun someone, allow you to place Mekhi on a table by clicking on it, or throw them by toggling on throwing.
Some people are unable to read text on a game where half of it is based on text.
As the Captain, you can use a whetstone to sharpen your fancy fountain pen for extra robustness.
As the Lawyer, you are the last bastion of roleplay-focused jobs. Even the curator got a whip to go fight people with, that sellout!
There are at least 11 ways to get through plastic flaps. How many can you name?
FEED ME A STRAY CAT
Did you know that tossing the clown into a singularity will either increase or decrease its size by a large amount?
Don't worry, you can always circlejerk your hate on the discord about furries.
Play a Vampire, they're overpowered and broken with no downsides that matter!
You can make a Beepsky with E-swords that will murder people for not wearing their IDs!
You can make a Beepsky with Toy-E-Swords if you want. It's like a cheaper Beepsky that will trip people and maybe shout on the sec channel about people its "Arresting"
There is a magic chem that turns people into Cat Girls/Boys. Its called "Felinid Mutation Toxin"!
Having Neko ears and tails or Cat ears and tails does not make you into a Felinid race!
Mhelp is basically useless, and never used correctly. Being a Mentor just means that admins will do Mhelps for you and you get to learn the round type when someone asks you a basic question regarding their antag status.
Toxins Bombs are not the only way to get RnD points. However, nobody will ever do any other method to get sci points...
Plasma men are a powerful race with many perks! No really, I swear! So what if they need an "ERP Plasma room" to fuck, who cares!
As a Cargo Tech make sure to always buy a tesla to sell back to CC. They love those those. Trust me!
Help. 
Maints.
Admins always regret meme options in their polls.
Putting cat ears on securitrons makes them table people and nya. Mekhi isn't a cat, but he still goes on the table, just roll with it.
As a Changeling, you can live without a head as they are merely vestigal to you, now, finally, you can be a Dullahan without it being Halloween.
People actually have fictional sex between fictional characters in this game.
When in doubt, take a break. A long break, preferably. If the game is wearing down your mental state and it's starting to lose any semblance of fun value, go and do something else for a month or two. By the time you come back, everything you liked will have been changed anyways.
